---
layout: post
title: "On Feelings of Inadequacy as a Girl in Tech."
category: posts
---

Generally speaking, when I sit in a room full of CS Majors, or self-proclaimed hackers, I feel a sense of camaraderie. After spending most of my first year at university panicking about what I wanted to study and generally feeling miserable, I had found Computer Science. I attended my very first hackathon, hackNY spring 2012, and I had reached a conclusion, and that conclusion was to become a hacker myself.

I suppose it is a very common thing, girls discovering coding much later than boys do. It certainly was the case for me. I attended a decent public school where I took a heavy humaities courseload. I was never exposed to programming from exploring it on my own either. I distinctly remember overhearing a male classmate talking about "Linux distros" and coding, but Computer Science wasn't even in my vocabulary. My school and the schools in my district did not offer introductory CS courses.

When I somehow miraculously managed to make my way into the School of Engineering and Applied Science at Columbia University, a general requirement course that I had to take was Introduction to Computer Science in Java, or, a class affectionately known as "ten-oh-four". There, I went through the agony of learning Java as my first programming language. I found myself feeling intimidated by my peers who seemed to know *exactly* what was happening in class while I told myself I didn't know what was happening because I wasn't good enough. I went to an enormous amount of office hours. I learned a lot, I failed on some things, I left not unscathed, but I found myself intrigued. 

So I took the next step. I signed up for Object Oriented Programming. Though not without some strife. I guess I should mention that my intentions upon matriciulating to Columbia was to become an Environmental Engineer, save the planet and all that, so you can guess that I might have experienced some form of turmoil leading up to the decision of dropping General Chemistry II for OOP. But the incredible thing was, I felt so much better after I did it. I guess that was the first sign of things to come. I found myself putting in hours into my programming assignments, excited I was coding things, getting good grades back, and doing *well* on the midterm. I felt happy. Then I attended hackNY and everyone was so *excited* to learn and build and hack and do cool shit, and I was completely enamored by the whole atmosphere of startups and the "techlyfe" and I just fucking *knew*.

But all of this also came with some reservations. 

My male friends at Columbia have been for the most part nothing short of encouraging to their female CS friends, myself included. But in the back of my mind, I can't help but think that I am somehow fooling them into thinking that I am an adequate programmer. They accept me, and I enjoy talking shop with them when we hang out. We have worked on hackathon projects together, and have taken classes together, and even in our free time, we end up talking about coding or startups or entrepreneurship.

So why is it that I doubt myself, especially for being a girl in tech? Why is it that I feel that I need to be in an environment with other girls because I feel like I am inadequate to hang out with the guys? Why is it that I find myself drawn to programs that target girls, or make it a point to especially include girls (Hacker School, Google's Sophomore Engineering Practicum, etc.)? I applied specifically to Google's EP internship program because there was a niggling feeling in the back of my mind that I had no chance at an actual software engineering internship. These programs are great, for sure, but I was personally applying to them because they made me feel *safe* about being a girl with aspirations in tech.

There are times when I can't help but think that being a girl has been advantageous for me, and because of that, I end up feeling an immense sense of guilt and inferiority. Take for instance my acceptance to Columbia's Engineering school. I always joke that I got in because I am a girl. I joke, but the fact of the matter is that I only do it half-jokingly. Note above when I wrote about my acceptance to Columbia, I wrote "miraculously" to describe it. When I applied to the hackNY fellowship, I was told by various friends and accquaintances that I would have an exponentially better chance at getting in *"because you're a girl."* I'm sure they meant it to be reassuring. And in the end I did get in, and will proudly be a member of the hackNY class of 2013. But, that comment went through my head when I found out that I had been accepted: exactly how much of this was due to my merit as a hacker, and how much of it was me being thrown in as a "diversity" factor? After all, I haven't been coding for that long compared to most guys. I sometimes feel that I don't have much to show for myself, and the distinguishing fact about me is my gender.

So I guess all I can do is look for the upsides. I need to tell myself that I am qualified for the things that other people might not think I have the abilities for. I need to realize my limitations, and awknowledge that they are not because I am a girl. They are because I might simply not be suited for, which doesn't make me any more of an inadequate person from the next.

*The author is a sophomore CS major at Columbia University's SEAS. She wrote this at 5:20 in the morning when she should have been working on a problem set. Perhaps this entry might seem overdramatic due to the state and time in which she wrote it. She doesn't know what came over her, but she felt compelled to write it at this time.*