---
layout: post
title: "On Semesterly Struggles"
category: posts
---

`The following post is a late night reflection.`

It is 2:00 AM on a Monday ~~night~~ morning as I struggle to finish my last Computer Science Theory problem set. I would venture to say that this is the hardest homework assignment I have had in this class. To be honest, I'm not exactly sure what I am accomplishing by staying up, staring at the problems that my brain simply cannot comprehend at this time. Maybe it is due to the hour of the day in which I am attempting to do it, or maybe it is my crippling fear of how I am unable to understand the questions it is asking of me, or perhaps it is simply that I am *incapable* of understanding the problems. (I'm not sure about that last bit; given enough time, I think something in my brain will click and I will end up chastising myself for being so overdramatic.)

Nevertheless, the issue stands: I am unable to finish my problem set.

More often than not, I find myself in this situation where I wonder where I have gone wrong this semester. I am now nearing the end of my fourth semester and not a semester has gone by when I have not asked myself this question. How did I go from feeling so good about a class to doubting my place at an educational institution like Columbia? Yes, I know I am supposed to be struggling, but the struggle eventually leads to a sense of defeat where I usually end up passively resigning myself to a "terrible" grade. When it seems like all of your classmates are, well to put it crassly, on top of their shit, what is it that *I* am doing wrong? Clearly there must be something wrong with *me*.... But is there something wrong with me? ~~Or is this all a product of the dreaded Sophomore Slump?~~

I attend lectures regularly, try to go to office hours when I can, and discuss questions with friends in the same classes. Overall, I think it is safe to say that I am not doing that badly in my classes. Maybe not great, but not bad either. Average. And being average at a place like Columbia sure is nothing to sneeze at, I think. But there is always that strange dark cloud that hangs over my head of getting a bad GPA or a bad grade in a class. Maybe it's leftover residue from high school when getting anything below an A seemed like the end of the world (how times have changed). Whatever the reason, it exists and I can't seem to shake it. And I think that is the root of my problems. There is a very real fear that despite all that I am doing to learn the material, I will not have the grade to show for it. What does that impose on me as a student? I worry about my grades as any student should, actually less so than I used to when I started here. CS majors have a tendency to say, "Oh don't worry about grades, no one really cares." But I can't help but think, really? Then why can't I shake that dark cloud? Why does its presence continue to dampen my college experience? 

In the end, I always seem to be "learning" for the sake of a grade, not *actually* learning for the sake of myself and my education. So this inability to do my problem set, is it actually a reflection on my lack of abilities and my aptitude for CS Theory, or is it that I am just too worried about my grade to proceed, which hinders me? Maybe I am not going to office hours enough, or I am not reading the textbook regularly. But I expect myself to get something out of going to lecture that I shouldn't be able to get out of the textbook. So at what point is this problem attributed solely to the fact that I am me? Maybe if I could just shed this cloud of uncertainty, I could truly learn. If I could simply *ignore* grades, I would be (ironically) doing much better in my classes. But I think it takes a certain type of person to marginalize the effect grades have on them, and I am not one of them.

So the question is, where do I go from here?
